.\" See LICENSE file for copyright and license details. */

.TH MGETOPT 3  2013-01-22 
.SH NAME
mgetopt \- Parse command line options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <mutils.h>
.sp
.BI "int mgetopt(int " argc,
.BI "char *" argv[],
.BI "const char *" optstr );
.sp
.BI "extern char *" optarg;
.br
.BI "extern int " "optind, optopt;"
.sp
link with
.IR -lmutils .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mgetopt ()
is intended to be a minimal
.BR getopt ()
replacement for systems that lack
.IR unistd.h .
The
.BR mgetopt ()
function parses the command-line arguments.
Its arguments
.IR argc " and " argv
are the argument count and array as passed to the 
.IR main ()
function on program invocation.
An element of
.I argv
that starts with "-" (and is not exactly "-") is an option element.
The characters of this element (aside from the initial "-") are option 
characters.
If
.BR mgetopt ()
is called repeatedly, it returns successively each of the option characters 
from each of the option elements.
.sp
The variable
.I optind
is the index of the next element to be processed in
.IR argv .
The system initializes this value to 1.
The caller can reset it to 1 to restart scanning of the same
.IR argv ,
or when scanning a new argument vector.
.sp
If
.BR mgetopt ()
finds another option character, it returns that character, updating the
external variable
.I optind
so that the next call to 
.BR mgetopt ()
can resume the scan with the following option character or 
.IR argv -element.
.sp
If there are no more option characters,
.BR mgetopt ()
returns -1. Then 
.I optind
is the index in 
.I argv
of the first
.IR argv -element
that is not an option.
.sp
.I optstr
is a string containing the legitimate option characters.
If such a character is followed by a colon, 
the option requires an argument,
so 
.BR mgetopt ()
places a pointer to the following text in the same 
.IR argv -element,
or the text of the following
.IR argv -element,
in 
.IR optarg .
.sp
Option processing stops as soon as a non-option argument is encountered.
The special argument "--" forces an end of option-scanning.
.sp
If
.BR mgetopt ()
does not recognize an option character, it stores the character in 
.IR optopt ,
and returns '?'.
.sp
If
.BR mgetopt ()
finds an option character in 
.I argv
that was not included in
.IR optstr ,
or if it detects a missing option argument, it returns '?' and
sets the external variable
.I optopt
to the actual option character.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If an option was successfully found, then
.BR mgetopt () 
returns the option character.
If all the command-line options have been parsed,
then
.BR mgetopt ()
returns -1.
If
.BR mgetopt ()
encounters an option character that was not in 
.IR optstr ,
or if it detects a missing option argument,
then '?' is returned.
.SH BUGS
.BR mgetopt ()
Full POSIX behavior is not implemented.  
No error messages are printed to 
.I sterr 
for unrecognized options or missing option arguments.
The
.I opterr
variable is not implemented.
Returning ':' instead of '?' to indicate missing option arguments
is not supported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getopt(3)
.SH AUTHORS
Mark Martin-Fanone <mark@martin-fanone.org>
